# **Class: MSSA QTC5**
## **Instructor:** Mr. Carter
## **Name:**   Daniel Thompson
## **Assignment:** Research Assignment
## **Date:** January 20, 2020

Web Applications - The Data They Utilize, User Interface and Processing Logic

The rapid development of new technology and remarkable improvements to existing infrastructures, provides new platforms to which businesses are adopting to reach their target audience. The days when traditional brick and mortar concept was the hallmark of a business are becoming a distant past. One major contributing factor to this paradigm shift is the development of Web Applications. A Web Application or Web App is an application program that is stored on a remote server and deliver over the internet through a browser interface. To those who are not savvy or familiar with the concept of web applications, the above definition may seem farfetched. However, by evaluating the processes that occur with applications such as Glassdoor, Zillow and Spotify, there should be a greater appreciation of what are web applications, the data they utilize, how the users are able to input that data and how does it process the data into useful information.

It would be a tedious and an almost impossible task to visit every company you desire to work for and ask if they are hiring, what role are they hiring for and how much are they paying. Hence the reason for sites like Glassdoor. Glassdoor is a job listing and recruiting site that offers a database of company reviews, CEO approval ratings, salary reports, interview reviews and questions, benefits reviews, and office photos. The company gather its data through targeted research and from those volunteered by current and former employees. The site provides a simple webpage with a textbox for user input known as a search bar. Users can choose from a set of filters to customize their search result based on geographic location and other criteria. Once the user clicks the search icon, a query is initiated in Glassdoor's servers which contains databases with over 12 million job postings, 55 million company reviews and 1 million employers. The results are generated based on the filters or constraints the user input and sent back to the user as a list that meet the criteria established by the user.

Similarly, to Glassdoor, Zillow facilitate the search for information. However, their databases contain data on real estate. Zillow serves the full lifecycle of owning and living in a home. Zillow's database contains more than 110 million U.S. homes - including homes for sale, homes for rent and homes not currently on the market, as well as estimate home values, Rent estimates and other home-related information. To access the desired information, users are presented with a textbox to enter search parameters. These include an address, neighborhood, city or zip code. After a query is made in Zillow's databases, the result is then displayed to the user in a list view, with pictures, prices and other vital information pertaining to the property. The user is also given a list of filters or sorting options such as prices, high to low or the inverse, and whether they want to buy or rent.

Another popular web application Spotify. Spotify is a digital music, podcast, and video streaming service that gives the user access to millions of songs and other content from artists all over the world. To access the vast music content, users choose what they want to listen to with Browse and Search textbox, which takes inputs such artist names, album names, track titles and many more search values. The app also provides banners or icons which users can click to
get recommendations from personalized features, such as Discover Weekly, Release Radar, and Daily Mix. Users can build collections of music, into playlists, see what friends, artists, and celebrities listen to and create their own radio stations.

All three of the preceding applications has a similar Processing Logic which is typical amongst most but not all web applications. The company maintains a database on a remote server, such as Glassdoor jobs information databases, Zillow's real estate databases and Spotify's music databases. To access data from these databases, the user input data in the search box on the website that serve as a user interface. These websites are accessible through a web browser. The user requests the information by selecting the search icon which initiate the request transmission to the databases on the remote servers. The request is checked and processed by the servers based on the search criteria established by the user. The results are then transmitted from the servers back to the web applications, which in turn display them to the user. This is the general concept of the kind of data utilize by web applications, how the users can input that data and how does it process the data into useful information.
